# Research question

This is a hypethesis-free / exploratory project which allows group members to learn about version control, using git/github, and other techniques to ensure project reproducibility.

# Study design

## Data sources

This data set contains published iTRAQ (isobaric peptide labelling approach) proteome profiling of 77 breast cancer samples generated by the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (NCI/NIH). It contains expression values for ~12,000 proteins for each sample, with missing values present when a given protein could not be quantified in a given sample. The details can be found in the [Kaggle Page](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/piotrgrabo/breastcancerproteomes?resource=download)

Ethical approval: The dataset was open access and does not require additional ethical approval.

## Phenotype

Protein expression data measured using an isobaric peptide labelling approach (iTRAQ). Tumour samples and protein measures have already been processed by sample QC, normalization and filtering. Details can be found in this publication: Mertins, P., Mani, D., Ruggles, K. et al. Proteogenomics connects somatic mutations to signalling in breast cancer. Nature 534, 55–62 (2016). [https://doi.org/10.1038/nature18003](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature18003).

# Methods

- Download the raw data from Kaggle website.
- Describe the data and missing values of protein expression and clinical data.
- Cluster the samples based on principal component analysis (PCA).
- Compare the clustering results generated using PAM50 mRNA and those generated by clustering the high-dimensional protein expression data.
- Develop a snakemake pipeline to automate the analysis.

# Data sharing & open science practices

- We aim to release the full repository at the end of the project.
- We use git and github for version control. When a group member submit their changes through pull request, other members of the team will review the code on GitHub and approve or suggest changes.
- We apply a MIT license for the code repository.


